{{Extension
|name        = Backup
|status      = beta
|type        = hook
|hook1       = RecentChange_save
|hook2       = ArticleSaveComplete
|hook3       = ArticleDeleteComplete
|hook4       = ArticleDelete
|hook5       = SpecialMovepageAfterMove
|hook6       = ArticleProtectComplete
|hook7       = ImageDoDeleteBegin
|author      = [[user:jldupont|Jean-Lou Dupont]]
|image       =
|version     = See SVN ($Id$)
|update      =
|mediawiki   = tested on 1.10 but probably works with a earlier versions
|download    = [http://bizzwiki.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/BizzWiki/extensions/Backup/ SVN]
|readme      =
|changelog   =
|description = 
|parameters  =
|rights      =
|example     =
}}
<!--@@
{{#autoredirect: Extension|{{#noext:{{SUBPAGENAME}} }} }}
== File Status ==
This section is only valid when viewing the page in a BizzWiki environment.
<code>(($#extractmtime|@@mtime@@$))  (($#extractfile|@@file@@$))</code>

Status: (($#comparemtime|<b>File system copy is newer - [{{fullurl:{{NAMESPACE}}:{{PAGENAME}}|action=reload}} Reload] </b>|Up to date$))
@@-->
== Purpose==
Defines a new hook 'backup' as a service to backup extensions.

== Features ==
* Page
** Creation   (done)
** Update     (done)
** Delete     (done)
** Move       (done)
** Protection (done)
* File
** Upload     (done)
** Re-upload  (done) (same as upload)
** Delete     (done)
** Move       (not allowed - hence, nothing to implement)
* Log         (done)

== Notes ==
=== Image ===
Upon deletion:
* no 'ArticleDelete' event is fired.
* recent changes table is cleared of any related entries
* log entry is created

== Theory Of Operation ==
Page change events are trapped and the corresponding 'Recent Change Identifier' (i.e. rc_id) field is attached
to a 'backup_operation' object. Trapping is done through the 'RecentChange_save' hook.
The 'revision' information is the critical information: every page change is associated with a unique 'revision id'.
 
When a complete 'backup_operation' is ready, the event 'backup' is fired (i.e. the hook 'backup' is called).

== Dependancy ==
* [[Extension:StubManager|StubManager extension]]

== Installation ==
To install independantly from BizzWiki:
* Download & Install [[Extension:StubManager]] extension
* Dowload all this extension's files and place in the desired directory
* Apply the following changes to 'LocalSettings.php' after the statements of [[Extension:StubManager]]:
<source lang=php>
require('extensions/Backup/Backup.php');
</source>
* If desired, an updated 'includes/Article.php' file can be installed. See [[{{FULLPAGENAME}}#Article.php patch]].

== Article.php patch ==
MediaWiki by default purges the 'recent changes' table for entries related to a delete article/image.
This behavior introduces some rather annoying side effects to this extension. A patched copy of Article.php
can be downloaded from BizzWiki's repository.

== History ==

== See Also ==
This extension is part of the [[Extension:BizzWiki|BizzWiki Platform]].

== Todo ==
Verify that the 'revision id' information is safely trapped:
* Page
** Creation   || ArticleSave              || rev_id OK
** Update     || ArticleSave              || rev_id OK
** Delete     || ArticleDeleteComplete    || rev_id OK
** Move       || SpecialMovepageAfterMove || rev_id OK (set to latest ID of source title)
** Protection || ArticleProtectComplete   || rev_id OK
* Log         || RecentChange_save        || rev_id *NOT NEEDED*
* File
** Upload     || FileUpload               || rev_id OK
** Delete     || ImageDoDeleteBegin       || rev_id OK
** Re-upload  || FileUpload               || (done) (same as upload)
** Move       (OK as it is not allowed anyway)
